Diana Ralston is an artist who for
decades suffered from serious depression
her problem started with the birth of
her daughter after i had Jane my
character completely changed I've lost
all confidence or belief in myself it
was every mother's nightmare she had
severe postnatal depression and couldn't
look after her child it went to oblivion
I really didn't know what I was doing I
didn't know what I was doing Diana was
sent to the hospital and Jane was taken
away from her for nine months doctors
gave her prescription drugs but she
didn't fully recover for years
depression set her apart from other
people I had terrible exhaustion lack of
concentration and no motivation not
wanting to go out just existing existing
hoping to get better
in 1999 a friend mentioned that a
nutritionist might be able to help so I
was at that stage when either I've try
anything Diana went to the brain bio
Center at the Institute for optimum
nutrition she booked a session with
Lorraine peretta a leading expert in the
way food affects the mind can you give
me an idea of what you eat throughout
the day and just start with breakfast
for the rain the first step is to
analyze her patients eating habits blood
and urine tests also help her identify
nutritional imbalances using this
information she recommends a strict new
diet Diana seized the opportunity to
change her life after years of suffering
the food she bought on her weekly
shopping trips changed radically in came
a host of new items from fish
to organic vegetables
and the results were remarkable I would
say within two weeks I felt a different
person I felt more like the person that
I had been before I'd given birth to my
child
but how could simply eating different
food mcdonough field dramatically more
happy and energetic after years of
depression there was some foods in her
diet that were actually draining her
brain power and there were some foods
missing from her diet that could have
given her brain a boost Diana's blood
test confirmed she suffered from an
important deficiency her key imbalance
was in a neurotransmitter called
histamine and we needed to raise this
level in order for her depression to
lift we did that through nutritional
supplements but these pills were just
part of the story Diana was also told to
eat more of a key brain food found in
oily fish fish like salmon and mackerel
are rich in essential fatty acids which
the body can't make for itself and these
fatty acids are an important building
block for many parts of the brain oily
fish is key from making the brain
structure in making neurons these
neurons actually produce the chemicals
but they let lift depression and make
people feel happy so the fish oils were
going to make her brain make happy
chemicals fresh fruit and vegetables
were also a major part of Diana's new
regime they're packed with vitamins and
minerals which helped the brain make
mood lifting neurotransmitters to Diana
surprise she was also ordered to stop
eating certain types of food wheat
products like bread with the first
casualty because they could cause
depression in some people we don't
really know the relationship between we
and depression but the theory is that it
is causing an allergic reaction which
results in the person feeling very
depressed very low lacking in motivation
you